Initial import of "Device Code flow in Python console app" (#5)
Azure-Samples/ms-identity-docs-code-python: msal-device-flow-python/README.md

<!-- Keeping yaml frontmatter commented out for now
---
# Metadata required by https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/browse/
# Metadata properties: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/help/contribute/samples/process/onboarding?branch=main#add-metadata-to-readme
languages:
- Python
page_type: sample
name: "Python console application that makes a request to the Graph API via the Device Code flow"
description: "This sample Python application shows a console application which makes a rqeuest to Microsoft Graph using the Device Code flow."
products:
- azure
- azure-active-directory
- ms-graph
urlFragment: ms-identity-docs-code-app-device-code-python
---
-->

> # Python | web APP | user sign-in, protected web API access (Microsoft Graph) | Microsoft identity platform

Reviewer: Can you update to match the scenario?

<!-- Build badges here
![Build passing.](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-brightgreen.svg) ![Code coverage.](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-brightgreen.svg) ![License.](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)
-->

> This demo shows how a Python console application can authenticate a user via the Device Code flow and then makea request to the Graph API as the authenticated user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This demo shows how a Python console application can authenticate a user via the Device Code flow and then make a request to the Graph API as the authenticated user at the terminal.
```

```console

> $ python app.py

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be emitting something like this?  (for here and below)

```suggestion
$ python3 app.py
To sign in, use a web browser to open the page https://microsoft.com/devicelogin and enter the code XXXXXXXXX to authenticate.
```

| **Platform type**                 | _None_                                                                       | No redirect URI required; don't select a platform.                                                 |
| **Allow public client flows**     | **Yes**                                                                      | Required value for this sample.                                                                    |

> :information_source: **Bold text** in the tables above matches (or is similar to) a UI element in the Azure portal, while `code formatting` indicates a value you enter into a text box in the Azure portal.

### 2. Update code sample with app registration values

```python
# Full directory URL, in the form of https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant>
"authority": "",

# 'Application (client) ID' of app registration in Azure portal - this value is a GUID
"client_id": ""
```

### 3. Install package(s)

To install MSAL libraries:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Run the application

```bash
python3 app.py
```

> If everything worked, the sample you should receive a response similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the device code flow instructions that are presented. If everything worked, you should receive a response similar to this:
```

<!-- Keeping yaml frontmatter commented out for now
---
# Metadata required by https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/browse/
# Metadata properties: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/help/contribute/samples/process/onboarding?branch=main#add-metadata-to-readme
languages:
- Python
page_type: sample
name: "Python console application that makes a request to the Graph API via the Device Code flow"

> description: "This sample Python application shows a console application which makes a rqeuest to Microsoft Graph using the Device Code flow."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "This Python console application uses the device code flow for authentication and then makes a request to Microsoft Graph for the user's profile data."
```

products:
- azure
- azure-active-directory
- ms-graph
urlFragment: ms-identity-docs-code-app-device-code-python
---
-->

# Python | console | user sign-in, protected web API access (Microsoft Graph) | Microsoft identity platform

<!-- Build badges here
![Build passing.](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-brightgreen.svg) ![Code coverage.](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-brightgreen.svg) ![License.](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)
-->

> This demo shows how a Python console application can authenticate a user via the Device Code flow and then make a request to the Graph API as the authenticated user at the terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Python console application authenticates a user via the device code flow, and then makes a request to the Graph API as the authenticated user. The response to the request is printed to the terminal.
```

```console
$ python3 app.py
To sign in, use a web browser to open the page https://microsoft.com/devicelogin and enter the code XXXXXXXXX to authenticate.
{
  "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#users/$entity",
  "businessPhones": ["+1 (999) 5551001"],
  "displayName": "Contoso Employee",
  "givenName": "Contoso",
  "jobTitle": "Worker",
  "mail": "cemployee@contoso.com",
  "mobilePhone": "1 999-555-1001",
  "officeLocation": "Contoso Plaza/F30",
  "preferredLanguage": null,
  "surname": "Employee",
  "userPrincipalName": "contoso_employee@contoso.com",
  "id": "e3a49d8b-d849-48eb-9947-37c1f9589812"
}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
## Prerequisites

- Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant and the permissions or role required for managing app registrations in the tenant.
- Python 3

## Setup

### 1. Register the app

> First, complete the steps in [Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app) to register the application.

Reviewer: From a prior example.

```suggestion
First, complete the steps in [Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app) to register the sample app.
```

Use these settings in your app registration.

| App registration <br/> setting    | Value for this sample app                                                    | Notes                                                                                              |

> |:---------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|---------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
```

| **Platform type**                 | _None_                                                                       | No redirect URI required; don't select a platform.                                                 |
| **Allow public client flows**     | **Yes**                                                                      | Required value for this sample.                                                                    |

> :information_source: **Bold text** in the tables above matches (or is similar to) a UI element in the Azure portal, while `code formatting` indicates a value you enter into a text box in the Azure portal.

### 2. Update code sample with app registration values

```python
# Full directory URL, in the form of https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant>
"authority": "",

# 'Application (client) ID' of app registration in Azure portal - this value is a GUID
"client_id": ""
```

### 3. Install package(s)

To install MSAL libraries:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Run the application

```bash
python3 app.py
```

Follow the device code flow instructions that are presented. If everything worked, you should receive a response similar to this:

> ```console

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
```json
~~~

{
  "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#users/$entity",
  "businessPhones": ["+1 (999) 5551001"],
  "displayName": "Contoso Employee",
  "givenName": "Contoso",
  "jobTitle": "Worker",
  "mail": "cemployee@contoso.com",
  "mobilePhone": "1 999-555-1001",
  "officeLocation": "Contoso Plaza/F30",
  "preferredLanguage": null,
  "surname": "Employee",
  "userPrincipalName": "contoso_employee@contoso.com",
  "id": "e3a49d8b-d849-48eb-9947-37c1f9589812"
}
```

## About the code

> This Python application will request a user to authenticate via the web browser. Upon successful authentication a request to the Graph API will be made and the response will be displayed.

Reviewer 2: This currently describes what the application _does_ rather than the code that enables it.

The intent of this section is to provide a more technical (yet still high-level) overview of how the **code** itself works. Things like which auth library (or libraries) it uses, the primary library types it uses, how the redirects and auth flow goes... that sort of thing.

Author: Thanks - I'll work on an update

| **Name**                          | `Python Device Code Flow App`                                                | Suggested value for this sample. <br/> You can change the app name at any time.                    |
| **Supported account types**       | **Accounts in this organizational directory only (Single tenant)**           | Suggested value for this sample.                                                                   |
| **Platform type**                 | _None_                                                                       | No redirect URI required; don't select a platform.                                                 |
| **Allow public client flows**     | **Yes**                                                                      | Required value for this sample.                                                                    |

> :information_source: **Bold text** in the tables above matches (or is similar to) a UI element in the Azure portal, while `code formatting` indicates a value you enter into a text box in the Azure portal.

### 2. Update code sample with app registration values

```python

>   # Full directory URL, in the form of https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant>
> 	"authority": "",
> 
>   # 'Application (client) ID' of app registration in Azure portal - this value is a GUID
> 	"client_id": "",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Full directory URL, in the form of https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant>
"authority": "",

# 'Application (client) ID' of app registration in Azure portal - this value is a GUID
"client_id": ""
```

```

> 
> 
> 
> ### 3. Install package(s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### 3. Install package(s)
```

To install Python libraries:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Run the application

```bash

> python app.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
python3 app.py
```
